So the impact for us is a sector again.
Look, I mean, all of this has been reported, but just to cover off in summary, we were already impacted through the loss of China group travel, which started in the second to last week of January.
Um, so with that, all of our international facing products hotels, our hotels are Airbnb, um, immediately impacted by that.
Many trying to travel actually understand the way they were the fourth largest international visitor market behind Australia, North America and Europe.
Um, it shut down pretty much once.
International travel restrictions for us and the economy covers more than just the tourism operators again with accommodation and also impacts retail hospitality, transport providers, operators, of course, but also been organized in major venues and, of course, the Mystery Creek and try and like people, a key of the platform for White District.
We have had significant job losses in business closures across tourism.
I have done underneath the last bullet point like the immediate business impact that we've been coaching our businesses and helping them get through.
Some have gone to what we call temporary or seasonal closure.
So again we have a lot of personality and tourism.
Many who would close for winter have closed.
But those potentially never before have suggested that go into hibernation.
Um and so that's what we call a temporary closures.
We've had a number of businesses.
Hobbiton was obviously one of the most public one's reported in the media.
But again, all our motels, hotels, retail, hospitality, pretty much reduced service and stuff.
There's only essential services operating as we know.
But again, with a level three, we do see some opening up in the hospitality sector.
Uh, anyway, and then the last.
Obviously implications for us is we have had a number of businesses who apparently closing.
Um, not only of these lost definitely the tourism industry to try and bring people back.
We don't have products, but also particularly for those vulnerable communities with some of these operators have been going for many years.
16.
Can't question about it.
Sure.
Have you got examples of what businesses are struggling and like what?
What doesn't closing?
Who is closing and how it is impacting on the street?
Yeah, so particularly for power has mainly been your hospitality teaching your retail and also accommodation.
So we've had many.
Nearly all of your accommodation is pretty much into hibernation closure.
They're calling it temporary closures, but the one that I've been able to access the wage subsidy, which is great.
But again, what?
We're going to see the impact longer than the twelve-week wages Absolutely right now.
So it's a post 12 weeks we're quite concerned about.
We have been lobbying national government, and I think that's all sectors, not just tourism around, potentially extending the wage subsidy for 20 weeks.
So we'll take a lot to restart the tourism sector again.
People propensity to travel is quite low.
We will travel locally and potentially we will travel into originally sustainable in the region.
But to try and stand up the domestic travel market is going to be a long haul that we're looking at 6 to 12 months recovery plan for it.
Great.
Um, so look, I mean, you know, prior to this was just when we do for industry, people know where we all fit.
So from the tourism perspective, you respond.
Obviously, we're providing the industry support right now at a national level, regional level, and also at a local level.
But then we have to walk.
A chamber of commerce associations and all of government have been great and actually supporting us for what we call the business community sort of support for tourism businesses and then, lastly, were obviously partnered with some of the things that we're providing welfare support, not just the tourism operators again.
It's also been utilizing tourism operators, which is have now been repurposed into providing, uh, food service is pretty much for supporting the food banks and actually cooking meals.
We also have a number of transport operators in tourism background, basically requisitioned now to provide transport options and actually getting people around essential workers, Um, many of the staff, potentially.
We've been redeploying some of the things that we're providing security, um, and welfare and call center.
So not only are we also working with been putting stuff in there as well and said, Yeah, even though we obviously dealing with over the years where there are obviously continuing issues that were going on with with over, um, with the tourism industry first up with domestic connectivity, sort of New Zealand has been pretty open that they will not be restarting level once we meet with New Zealand Weekly just to see how we will try and stay in the industry back up again, they're gonna focus very much what we call an incremental restart, doing work in brief strategy across the country.
So potentially maybe only two or three flights to Hamilton today.
But again, just to try and get their reach across the whole first before they can actually stand up full schedule like we have seen a particularly in the last three or four years.
Airline connectivity internationally is still continuing, so those are just summary of some of the ones that are still flying.
Air New Zealand are connecting into North America in Hong Kong into Australia.
Fiji Airlines still flying Fijian daily service
All right.
Hey, nick.
So the big news is that the Cryptocurrency markets are hitting an all time high right about now, literally this minute,
yeah,
It's $2.8 trillion.
Right?
That is a, a boatload of money.
Uh, it's wild.
How are you feeling?
Yeah, I'm not trying to take it for granted.
There's a tremendous amount of work that has happened over the past decade by entrepreneurs all over the world that are building a new asset class that's designed for the age of the internet.
And so we couldn't be in a more appropriate forum to really dig in to maybe what the next 10 years are going to look like as the internet continues to proliferate in every aspect of our lives.
But I think especially in how we coordinate our time efforts, energy and capital.
And so it's not an obvious to me that we were always going to need a financial system for the internet.
And the good news is it's arrived.
So what's really interesting about Blockchain is that you guys have been around since, basically this has been an industry.
You just celebrated your 10th anniversary the other day.
Yeah, we, uh, blockchain.com turned 10 years old on October 15 and it was an absolute special day to celebrate with our team and the community members, we have all over the world.
It's been a long journey, But in that time we've had almost 80 million people sign up for blockchain.com wallets in nearly every country around the world, 80 million.
You said 80 million.
Yeah.
And those users have conducted over a trillion dollars worth of on chain transactions with each other and still to this day, Blockchain dot com users are contributing over one third of worldwide network traffic on chain on the Bitcoin network.
So we're really proud of all these things, but we still see the work we're doing is foundational to build the tools that are gonna make it possible for people to passport into the future of financial services.
You were early enough actually to snag the domain Blockchain dot com, how much do you think that's worth today?
It's worth quite a bit.
We actually did that transaction in Bitcoin and so it may turn out to be the most or one of the most expensive domains in the history of the world.
But um, I don't mind that at all.
We used to pay for our rent and Bitcoin, we paid all of our early salaries in Bitcoin.
And if you were to do all the math, it would look a little silly today.
But one of the most important things you can do from my perspective to spread the word about how powerful crypto is as, as a concept is to gift it is to share it is to pay your service providers in it and have that aha moment where they realize that they can exchange wealth with anybody else in the world regardless of the circumstances of their birth instantly and most times much more cheaply than they would if they were using a traditional financial service provider.
Um how many people in the audience own Cryptocurrency, raise your hand.
Lots and lots of people.
How many people own self hosted self custody deed?
Crypto be your own bank?
Possibly even from Blockchain, fewer fewer.
What's the pitch for people to.
So it's important to understand that there are different tools you can use to hold custody over your crypto or to hold basically an account balance where somebody else is holding your crypto.
One of the main points, especially in the early days, was to dis intermediate finance and put users firmly back in control of their money when you park your money in a bank.
They use that to lend it out and they're an interest on it.
They also hold all of that money and make money off of you.
You are sort of the product and the digital currency land.
And especially some of the early pioneering projects like Bitcoin, the idea was to sort of flip that all on its head and make all the people in the world the endpoints, the custodians of money to decentralize access and custody so you can certainly choose to use centralized services or exchanges.
And especially in the early days of Cryptocurrency, that was really risky.
These service providers would sometimes get hacked and all of the money would disappear.
Now I think a lot of improvements have been made in custodial offerings.
But it all comes down to your tolerance and your risk and I highly recommend probably having multiple different tools you use sometimes storing things in a non custodial wallet and then maybe using a staking service or a custodial offering if that makes sense to you as well.
But the Blockchain dot com wallet is by far the world's most widely used non custodial wallet.
We also have custodial services for those that want them though.
So you can basically choose your security and custody journey with the Blockchain dot com experience.
Now we chatted I think it might have been a month ago
and you told me that Blockchain had made $1.5 billion dollars in revenue for the year to date.
Um where does that stand now?
And uh, and also maybe give us a little bit of insight into how Blockchain makes money.
Yeah, so blocking these wallets are free to download.
Yeah, so anyone in the world can download a Blockchain dot com wallet, you can find it in the app store on IOS, android or sign up online to via the web.
Um, so we're always sort of known for our wallets and we really have two sides of our crypto financial house.
We've got the retail side which helps people basically start their crypto journey.
So if you're a crypto curious individual, you can sign up for a wallet and very quickly by send receive secure or trade your first crypto and that's a great place to begin.
We also have an entire institutional side of the house though.
We have a large lending operation, we have the Blockchain dot com venture funds, we have proprietary trading over the counter trading for high net worth individuals.
We have an asset management product for institutions and we even have a custody service for protocol projects.
So if anybody out there is building um, any of these types of protocols or tools, we'd love to talk with you just listening to the last panel, you hear these amazing young entrepreneurs that are dreaming up fantastic ideas.
Um, we'd love to work with you as well and help you on your journeys.
So you basically do a little bit of everything you flooded the zone, you're hitting all these different business lines.
Um, what are the institutional investors, the big money investors interested in?
Yes.
So one of the reasons from my perspective that you're seeing an all time high across the total market cap of this emergent asset class, there are really three broad themes.
Obviously, there's been an enormous amount of discussion about the phenomena of non fungible tokens and the creator economy, the zeitgeist of all of the people that build the things that we love watching.
The creators of music and movies.
They're finding new ways to have ownership over their art and I think I would really not discount how significant this is.
There are now hundreds of thousands of artists and musicians, composers that are deeply investing their time and talents in creating digital collectibles.
I have a couple of FTS, I'm not one to brag about them though I did it out of curiosity.
I'm also not really an art collector so it's not usually my jam although when I was a kid I collected seashells some coins and baseball cards
and so I really do think some of the especially algorithmic design artwork is super cool.
Um So anyway we can get into that in a little bit but big theme around the cultural zeitgeist driving, you know the N. F. T. Phase, especially young adults, young artists, you also have the macroeconomic conditions, it's not a secret that they're negative interest rates across many of the markets in the world.
Where do people park their wealth in order to not lose their purchasing power literally, today for all the young entrepreneurs in the audience.
If you did what you were told to do by your parents and your teachers, you got a good job, you got a bank account finally, with all the right paperwork and it took forever and you put a little bit of money away into your savings account, you are actually losing purchasing power every single day.
So what can you do about that?
Well investing in some cryptocurrencies?
Maybe a good thing to explore.
There are positive yields and a lot of different stable coins, which means you don't actually have to have exposure to volatile crypto assets to actually gain some interest in going to the market dynamics there, but it's something worth exploring.
There is a lot of volatility in the crypto markets, I mean we're hitting an all time high right now, but what comes up often goes down.
Um So what is the right mix for people, you know, your everyday person who's like, they want to diversify a little bit, maybe they're interested in getting into crypto, but they don't want to lose their life savings.
Yeah, this actually gets neatly fits into your question about what do institutions want and what do institutions want and what do you, first time crypto purchasers want that maybe don't want that volatility.
What they want is risk management.
They want proper governance over how they manage.
Their money is managed and their wealth is managed.
There are now many different service providers that are offering sophisticated investment access to cryptocurrencies where there is risk management applied.
So basically you don't get as much of the upside, but you also won't deal with as much of the downside if there's a market correction.
And so um generally, you know, the rule of portfolio management and risk management applies to crypto just like it does apply to the world of regular, traditional investing.
Um but I would definitely argue it's super important that you vet the service providers make sure they've had a long term track record of operating with integrity, make sure they have faces to their products.
Um there's a lot of things to consider when you're facing off against, you know, any service provider over the internet.
But do your homework?
Give us give us a number though, what's like a sensible, responsible share of your network to put into crypto?
Okay, I'm probably the worst person in the world you're gonna say 100 because I'm pretty much all in on crypto.
But honestly, I'm not an investment advisor.
You need to understand your own risk tolerance with anything but don't just do it because your friend is doing it.
This is important.
This isn't some fomo thing you need to understand why crypto is relevant to this day and age.
Here is my thesis and maybe one you can draw some ideas from.
It's my view that over the next decade the internet will be the largest contributor globally to GDP.
And this internet economy is going to need the ability for people to exchange wealth digitally across borders to teleport the way we exchange precious information that will often times represent real world value.
And so if you want to be able to do that, you're going to need a digital fabric that's wrapped itself around the world that makes that possible.
That is exactly what cryptocurrencies are for.
There are different types of cryptocurrencies that are, some that are designing themselves to be a little more stable.
There are some that are designed to be very volatile on purpose and there are some that are very funny and they capture people's imagination because of their funny names or their actual economic compositions.
So the point is, do some research, there's a reason why some of the assets though are very valuable and have been around for a long time and that's because they have large numbers of developers and community members and companies that are building tools to make those assets more useful.
So things like Bitcoin, things like ethereum even more exploratory projects like Solano and others that are up and coming have large groups of communities that are basically putting their support behind these projects.
I think that's one of the things I consider when I look at whether or not I'm going to allocate into a specific crypto whether there is a vibrant community that is actively developing tools and new sorts of projects on a particular.
Exactly.
Um, interesting.
Uh so we've talked a lot, you painted this bold, bright vision of the future and how it's going to be very crypto oriented, but let's talk counterpoints.
What are the challenges, What are the threats facing crypto?
What could make this not pan out in the way that you foresee?
Well, um, I do think there are a lot of challenges obviously that will face.
Um, one of them is going to be consumer confusion.
I often hear from my friends like uh well what about this coin?
Um or have you heard about this new project?
Is it viable and right now there's so many new projects forming and it's very difficult for first time community members to ascertain whether or not these things have strong governance.
How are the tokens allocated to the founding team?
Is there anything really backing this is the technology innovative, What's the problem it's trying to solve?
So there's definitely some dynamics there that I think are challenging for consumers on the technology side.
We have some big challenges, the user interfaces are still clunky and I'll admit that I think we have a much better job to do ourselves and I would seriously welcome feedback from anyone in the audience.
You can email it to me at Nicholas at Blockchain dot com, let us know what you think we can do a better job with, but we need better interfaces across the market.
We also need better ramps um, once you're in digital currency land it's really easy to move money around, but actually getting into it is still sort of a challenge.
There are long queues, you need to link up your bank account, you need a KY CN AMl, Some of these things are very important but they still create a lot of friction to gain access and I think speeding some of those things up will make it possible for more people, especially in emerging markets where the traditional financial services haven't even been able to actually penetrate effectively.
We still have a lot of challenges moving people into a digital fabric in the first place.
So those are all obvious ones.
We can also talk about the regulatory environment that is, you know, more, uh, more focused on this than ever before.
Earlier this year, let's talk about that.
Yeah.
Earlier this year, if you weren't paying attention in Washington, D. C, literally shut down for a weekend because of changes that were made to an infrastructure bill, um, and there were small provision made about Cryptocurrency.
And overnight the Congress men around the country were pummeled by phone calls by tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of americans that were saying, hey, we own this asset and we want you to be more considerate and the policies you're making about it.
And so one of the interesting things though is that there are now hundreds of millions of people all over the world that own this asset class, potentially more than any other asset class in the history of all assets.
And so policy makers are going to have to come up the learning curve quickly to what people in the real world are seeking and desiring what to do with their wealth.
And without a doubt, we have a huge amount of work to do to still educate our policymakers, to understand the risks and really the benefits of including more people in the financial economy of the internet.
And this is a big deal, if you like the idea that anyone in the world should be able to participate in the economy from an equal starting point provided they have access to the internet and probably a smartphone.
Those are real barriers to entry for some people.
Cryptocurrencies offer a gateway to bring billions of people into the economic influence of the internet.
This should be important and this should be a strategic national interest imperative for countries around the world now, but they still need to figure out how to appropriately handle it.
Governments and central banks are worried they're nervous about this.
They see the potential in the future for a slippage of their monetary authority.
Their sovereignty.
Um, China has banned crypto for the umpteenth time.
Uh, and if you speak to somebody like Ray Dalio, the billionaire hedge fund investor, he'd say that, you know, if Bitcoin or other Kryptos get really successful, the government is going to find a way to outlaw it and we'll crack down and, and, and smother it.
Uh, what is your response to that?
Yeah.
So, um, last week, a group of financial statesman from some of the largest traditional financial service providers in the world gathered in Saudi Arabia to talk about what was going on in the markets, you had the head of Goldman Sachs, the head of Black Rock, the head of Bridgewater and you had Ray Dalio at the end.
They were all posed a question, which is what would you rather hold in your portfolios today, dollars, euros, gold or Bitcoin.
The only person that said Bitcoin was Ray Dalio.
So he does actually see it as an asset class worth diversifying at least some of his portfolio and the others I think are still coming to terms with what to do with this.
All of their customers are asking for it though.
And today those large traditional financial service providers do not have products in place yet for their own clients, which is pretty wild now my arguments for coming around though.
I mean they're working organ and the rest, you know, Jamie Diamond has been very critical of Bitcoin, but now they're offering it to their clients and customers.
Yeah, so the large traditional financial service providers are changing their perspective on this because they're getting questions from their clients and the community of crypto advocates around the world and regular um and even Millennial and also, um I would say even my generation and my parents generation are asking their wealth managers for access to finance to digital financial products.
This is changing the conversation in these large traditional financial service providers.
I happen to notice the shirt you're wearing.
Thank you George Washington doesn't look too too comfortable on that side.
That's okay, George Washington is gonna be just fine.
So one of the arguments against cryptocurrencies is that maybe they you know, you said were degrading the state's control over their sovereignty of and their control of money.
I'm not sure that argument is actually that valid.
And here's why there's a proliferation now of something called stable coins.
These are 1 to 1 pegged tokens to us, dollars to euros or £2.
So governments actually already have all the monetary policy they need, but they also need to probably help usher in regulatory frameworks for these types of stable assets.
We have a huge report on this ourselves at Blockchain dot com forward slash research.
You can learn about stable coins.
Um but policymakers are actually wrapping their heads around how useful these things are because they enable for a more liquid economy.
If it's easier for people to exchange dollars over the internet, that's good for everybody in America.
It's good for the global economy as well.
So there are different arguments being all sort of, I would say battle tested, uh, intellectually in Washington D. C.
Um but somewhere in the middle policy will be created and it's a priority for the biden administration, the biden administration and Treasury Department and bunch of top financial regulators, They just put out a report urging Congress to regulate the stable coin industry to regulate the issuers of these as banks to slap very big constraints on their operations.
Where do you come down on that position?
I'm not sure I'm the perfect person to opine on that specifically.
I actually liked that the biden administration sent this to Congress.
They're basically saying.
Tell the people, tell your representatives and tell your congressman what you want, help us figure out how to do this.
And it's important that we participate in that dialogue.
If you haven't picked up the phone, we still live in a democracy, call your congressman and tell them where you stand on these things.
It is important to help our policy makers really understand how the technology that we use every day is shaping the world.
Most of them still don't really understand how telephony works.
The internet is an alien to them.
Getting into crypto is even more sophisticated so we have work to do to up skill and educate but it does require constant, you know, education from even everybody in this room.
I've got to ask you this just because SEOP SEOP event is going on right now in Glasgow and climate change is such a big theme at this event.
Even um Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies have an environmental impact.
Um a lot of people use it to criticize, you know, proof of work the mining mechanism that that these kryptos that Bitcoin and others use how damaging is this to the environment and how concerned should people be that were hastening our demise.
Yeah, so the argument that rob is talking about you've probably maybe even seen headlines about it where the entire Bitcoin network consumes an enormous amount of energy to basically secure the economic history of all the transaction that's ever happened about as much as Ukraine from the research that I've, so um I think it's a it's a valid argument and by the way, um it does use a lot of energy.
This is also why you have innovative other cryptocurrencies that are testing different consistency, consensus mechanisms for maintaining the integrity of those ledger systems.
So famously this summer ethereum is switched from a proof of work to a proof of stake system that's all ongoing and I think you'll see different market solutions and we'll see what happens to the argument though, that crypto burns a lot of electricity.
It is also actually speeding up the adoption of investment into alternatives and renewable energies, A lot of the world's largest mining facilities that are these large warehouses of computer systems that consume energy need to be in places where energy is very affordable.
And if you've got a giant power system in the sky and you can capture that energy affordably and mine it, you can actually invest at scale large plants to basically grow more energy.
And so it's a nuanced argument and I would say it's not one way or another um, on a, on a personal level, I'm deeply concerned about climate change myself
and um I think there's going to be ways though using Blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies to actually price the energy consumption of the world's economy
and then we can offset that in a really transparent way we don't really understand today.
The like literally the impacts of all the externalities of all the transactions that happen if you build a Canary Wharf or Wall Street, literally the amount of construction and the damage that has caused is extraordinary.
The strip mining to put all those things together, building buildings that are completely unnecessary to secure trust.
There's a whole bunch of stuff that was unnecessary in the past.
We do have a moment now to start to think about how we shape this future in a more responsible way though.
And I see the market helping us do that.
This is an incredibly important topic.
We've got just a few minutes left and I want to get to this little game to play with you, which is over appreciated or underappreciated.
Um I'm gonna toss something out there, You're gonna tell me what you think, Okay, N. F. T. S over or under it's frothy right now.
Um I think there could be uh it's gonna give you a nuance center uh frothy right now.
Um I think it's gonna take a little while for the user interface is um to get really great, but imagine, you know, having being a fan of um you know, Manchester United and seeing Ronaldo scored a goal and then minting that moment as an N. F. T. And giving it away to one fan at the end of the game and you having that as a collectible for the rest of your life.
I think that would be an incredible thing to own.
And I see that vision, I just think we've got a long way to go to get there.
So maybe short term frothy long term underappreciated still.
Okay next up.
Yeah.
Um So there are a lot of different meme coins today.
It's worth maybe explaining these.
They're literally um currencies sort of formed around a concept or a joke.
Um And I think this one would probably be one that I wouldn't necessarily throw my life savings into how many shiba inu coin holders are there in the audience, raise your hand.
There are some but not not probably not telling because it's gone up so much and the whales, they're not going to let you know if they if they have billions locked up there um The Federal reserve um Look I still hold some dollars.
I find them useful when I'm paying for things in cash in the U. S.
Um I wouldn't discount you know the the integrity of the United States economy.
It has been you know working hard over the last century.
Um I wouldn't discount it at all.
But I do see it getting digitized and that's where I'm excited about the use of stable coins which is just programmable dollars and so in that way long term bullish on that.
And by the way those stable coins settle and clear on public ledger technologies like al grande like Selena like ethereum.
So if you want to own some of the transactional network capability, it's worth owning some of the crypto that underlies it too.
El Salvador, legalizing Bitcoin as legal tender.
Yes.
So if you missed it a country in the world this year literally legalized crypto and Bitcoin specifically as legal tender for all debts and settlement.
This is a very big deal
and I think they're a pioneering in this way.
I expect to see more countries hold crypto on their treasury.
Just like some big companies do like Tesla and many more so more to come.
Okay excellent.
And finally leave us with a prediction for what the future holds.
Um Price predictions of course welcome anything you can quantify maybe put a number on that would be most appreciated.
Yeah, I think by 2030 probably three billion people will be using cryptocurrencies every single day in their lives.
But they have a more surprising statistic I think by the end of this year half of the world's billionaires will be billionaires because of crypto and they're going to use that money to build things.
They're going to invest in projects.
They're going to fund new initiatives, they're going to build influence and they're going to spread the gospel and that's not going to change.
So I'm excited for the future and thank you for this interview.
Thank you.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks everybody.
Mhm Underplay
Yeah
Good morning, sir.
Whole gaming.
Yeah.
Can you hear me?
They absolutely.
No, no, I think three.
Nice shape.
Well, it's not really shape.
It just happened to be like this.
You lucky person.
Come here.
I don't want to make too much of your time.
I kind of just want to have a discussion to learn about you learn about where you want to go.
What you want to do on, then?
Yeah.
We could discuss some of the sentiment analysis on where else you would see making an impact.
Basically, I'm sure you are in multiple discussions with multiple companies as your skills are highly demanded.
So tell me.
Tell me about about you.
What do you want to do?
Actually, what do you like doing?
Well, I like what I like.
No, they're the sexual data processing.
Most must have hope.
I'm really Max out with On recent developments in the build of NLP Special processing alos former mortals birthdays taught deputy base models.
They just threw exciting.
They give quite a war over fences because when I was starting doing the mind of the research back in 1000 Stace and believe in University of Sussex in the UK I wasn't really aware of all the possibilities that we have now.
And I guess in most cases we haven't it'll eyes old everything to those new approaches and new developments in the L. B over us so and also also was quite in tricked by the idea he'll start up E.
I guess it's just pretty my spot on because because things are more often happening online right now and from my experience working offline, revoked.
I do realise that problem one of the biggest problems is just like many fish and a lot of things discussed a lot of things proposed a lot of other things that were put on the table there in this online discussion, this simply just just reparation justice.
It is just just going nowhere.
And and the idea, I mean, in general in general, I believe that the biggest challenge.
Perhaps now, a while ago there was a challenge of love of finding information, and that's when uh, Vogel and other search engines emerged because people didn't happen of information.
To have information, you have to go with Valerie.
You have to just serve books, those funny currents and things like that, and they were usually when they old dated and there were a prose.
But now we have different problems.
Have problems finding, finding information.
We have problems just not to be drawn with the heads of information.
Just just just pour in from all sides to.
And the idea of momentum information management in all respects is I really promise they're helping people to just sort out the those incoming information streams.
I think in general, is it?
It's a very good idea for any kind of bent and entrepreneurial activity.
Three days?
Yeah.
Speaking of which are you Tell me about Poppy.
I don't know.
You pronounce it will be your FBI like the eyes.
It was my start off in the education technology.
I was thinking about implementing more personalised approach in languish lying so that people don't have to learn.
General, I just that they just learned things that made them bodies suspended.
Now way don't have funding for this on.
I used this.
It's actually legal item in the film, and I I use it asked, for example, is a way to get contracts with so so that you don't have to hire me.
I just can't just make contract with the company and just bake Bake Scotland, which makes things much easier to save taxes as well.
Yeah, I'll sort out here and then cool
and I'm looking.
I have your CB there
and I've gone through some of the publications, but I'm trying to not talk about publications.
It is very easy for me to fall into birth discussions about NLP, especially on S I'm trying to not do that because clearly your background is fine.
You know, you have the training, you understand how it works.
There's no need in quizzing you and trying to figure out if you understand an LP.
I'm really a lot more interested in figuring out also like, How do you like working remotely?
Basically, Yeah, I guess it's just extra benefit.
Save a lot of time and saves a lot of energy because I remember last time I worked in office, it's usually took me two hours to get to office and them to ours.
Mawr to get back.
It was complete waste of time, complete waste of my time and the flexibility on don't think I don't believe that people, especially in about left Let's call it creative.
Well, yeah.
Strange fields, Yes.
I mean, if you just need to dig a hole than that between to be a sport and just before.
But if if you need todo come up with new things, come up with new ideas, come up with new solutions, it doesn't really matter if you stay here or there.
You just do You think between this hour and bet our because.
But sometimes it's much more productive time when I would get up at night and a note happens to me that night.
But I'm much more productive working life when it when it's dark outside.
And I was driving in the in the mornings.
So if I have to go to office to be there at nine a.m. then I'll be I'll be there.
I'll be there.
But I want a great e won't be very useful.
I just work in offices, of course.
And I used to work in in Britain and then Brandwashed this company in Brighton and yeah, it was fine.
But you know, if you're not productive, is much mawr.
I think it's wise and just not to force yourself.
If you feel like you're feeling, don't do anything useful is that was just sitting and presenting.
You're working
so I mean remote work from a is the building to the more productive times when I am perfect, right?
Not just trying to squeeze myself out just with something useful out of me.
So I like, I think, I think is the future of your agree with you.
Actually, I would go even one step further and say, You know, the the younger Let's go the 20 year old person who wants to be in the office.
It's because their life is modelled around their work.
Their social life is modelled around their work.
They don't want to go in the office to be more productive.
They want to go chaps and have social lives.
Yeah, there's like from our side of the big thing is trying to encourage people to have social lives physically like anything we can do to, like you'll always hear me say, Life, work, balance instead of work, life balance.
I think life comes first on.
I was actually interviewing someone last week, completely unrelated, but the person said, I'm a lot more productive at home on I get a lot more done since I've started working from home.
But I really want to go to the office to talk to the people.
Well, get a hobby.
People around here, right?
Yeah.
Exactly.
Anyway, sorry.
I don't mean to go in to tangent.
That's completely useless.
Here s
O you arch in the UK from the mistaken
Right now.
You're in the UK right now.
If I'm not mistaken.
Yeah, that's right.
Finland.
I used to live in the UK for six years.
Then I moved away.
And now for two years, you know, it makes sense.
What I wanted to ask, actually, actually, that's that's more of a discussion.
Let's see.
Actually, that's interesting.
I am.
I'm also fascinated by language on linguistics is my first passion.
If you want on, for instance, we have something in the product.
All dis fluency, reparations, which is a burden transformer roughly.
That's fine tuned.
That takes a sentence sentence such as?
Oh, I really love coffee.
I mean cake.
The sentence becomes I love cake.
One of my make peace with my big pieces around transcription problems is the first of all.
Transcription in general is not very accurate.
That's Okay.
Second, as humans, we have been kind of conditioned to read sentences and text which are clean.
I don't write in email, like with three or four reparations during the sentence.
My email was a a Paris.
Can we meet on Tuesday?
It's not gonna be a can we meet on Tuesday?
Actually, when they you know what?
So one of our model is disc fluency reparation to fix those problems.
Now a new version of new version.
Sorry.
Another thing we're having now which getting might also be a birth classifier.
And that's something I want to discuss now is action item detections so identifying action items in conversation on what I wanted to do is kind of go over this with you and see how we would approach a model that would identify action items that I said.
So you're you're linguist.
You understand how verbs are formulated.
You understand that there's different ways of being subjunctive.
I remember the model sense of the sentences on like I think, mostly in part of speech.
Whenever I look at a sentence, I don't really look at the words.
I look at how they're linked together.
So how would we do this, Let's let's do this together, actually, because that's kind of a question I'm always battling with.
I have a model right now.
It's not very accurate.
It works, but not very accurate.
So what will be our steps to start this project now?
Yeah,
I mean visible way.
Todo define the the action actions here.
You mean?
So it's something that is blend to d'oh or could be planning to d'oh or something that should be put in the Middle East, right?
Yeah, it's Let's say I tell you Hey, how about we finish this by next week
and you say, Actually, let's finish this or let's say I'll get back to you next week.
That's an action item.
I'll get back to you.
I have to follow up on this.
Yeah, this is an interesting problem, and it looks more like to me, like into the commission.
Yeah, that question in the case of Editor Commission, because these days, mostly about verse, not now.
And I think it might be the first of them that I would think about it.
Was they just trying t o find Hugh and NT to admission model to this case Probably it is possible to market the small data set like a few 100 of you.
Yeah, you had spoken of cases and trying to find you an existing bird model that is trained on named Editor Commission Just 80 recognition officer named Tradition.
There's to end a couple for layers and find unit in there and see her before.
I don't know what kind of well you come now and was trained, but this would be probably one way of doing this.
Accents also.
Also, I think there's probably some heuristics could help either as a pre process in a stable post processing station.
Probable because since we have some idea of the structure of possible structure of these of these items, and we are, expect them to be mostly based on verse, because this actions onder.
Probably if we understand the context of these actions, we can restrict them to two todo certain number of possible actions.
Life resentful me things, finishing something, starting something and
so so force.
It could be some of your six that would help us to identify these, and who knows?
Probably heuristics will be even better solution than models because models less predictable.
There is much more manageable and being the first the first mission needs to do.
It was off good night and excited.
Everybody's it is.
It's a bit, which is quite a tickle the team, because even best moral statement trance just when I think I want don't want them to happen on while You're Sticks are quite nice, predictable.
But they're very difficult to say who have, like more than still dozens rules, Then the system, the gaps becomes completely imaginable.
It's funny you say that speak.
That's exactly what happened.
Basically, you can have patterns of the entity types on part of speech tags and that sort of stuff, right?
And initially, the first version I had something just about 13 different combinations of sequences, and what ended up happening is I couldn't debug it at the end because you were mad.
I wished it.
I mean, linguistics is also from the rules, and the problem is with rules there.
It's okay when you have just 543 10 bulls, probably.
But if you have more rules, they become complex that I just happened.
This gave these these least, and they can become the circle dependencies and it becomes so we can become a nightmare.
I work in what the company where there was a special guy.
He was the only one in the whole Gulliver's who could manage all this rules.
She was probably the most purchase purchase precious asset of this company because if you leave the whole system because just like books and he was the guy who was somehow was able to understand, what's happening with those settles.
So I personally, how always been.
I have always believed in the more hybrid approach, so things which can be can be can be delegated to machine learning techniques.
Stick should be there, and things that can be managed by more or less simple rules they should be done should be done by a power bar By my Bibles heuristics.
It's all about research, I would say, Yeah, you know, that's right.
Makes sense completely, completely agree with you, actually, and I think that's probably a good way to start our still by the heuristics
There was there was one concept I looked at, which was called data.
It's basically analysing the language to have multiple, so there is a like multiple levels of of identifying a pattern.
So there's first of all you identify a description than you identify the owners.
Who said that?
So let's say goes.
We should probably fix the sign up, but next week that's the description.
Then if someone said, Yeah, I think I could do this that's the owner that Owen Dota next week was this finding the description?
The owner said he's going to do it.
So the timestamp of the tea of Dota, his owner next week and then the the agreement is yes or yes, I'll do that identifying multiple levels.
But I never ended up building the model for this.
I think it could be quite accurate, but I don't know how to do with you.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
I mean, I I'm quite interesting, quite interested in hearing and seeing how how you would, how you would approach some parts of our system because you seem to have some really interesting, solid experience.
Do you have questions for me?
Actually, before I continue Well, D'oh, they really have any any any working product in this case.
Yeah.
Okay, so it's available in Latin, and we're development yourself of these dissolution I've developed most of the machine learning right self, most of them.
So there's multiple parts, right?
So you see, there's an assistant here to join the call.
This assistant extracts the audio.
The audio is enhanced, so we have better sound levels than the sound is passed to.
Initially, we were having our own transcribed.
But then we moved to Amazon.
Transcribe data comes back so you have every term with a start and end.
So we get to each word.
When it started when it ended, we rebuild the sentences.
Then what I do is and analyse the silences in the whole conversation on I've built a very basic algorithm.
I called the two Peaks Dual duel, pick detection on it basically takes the main peaks of silence is what analyses their prominence to their relative to relative peaks next to them that it breaks down the meeting in multiple sections like this, which are very objective inside age of those, I run some anchored latent directly allocation algorithm which identify some topics.
I've modified this a bit so that we're the only ones I think that do.
And Graham anchored LDA so in theory, a user good pass, something like put more emphasis on financial updates, and then the topic modelling would put it a little bit more emphasis on financial updates or multiple words.
So now, once we have that there, that that's all normal statistics, then we re analyse the silences is again in that section, break that section down into multiple parts for each of these parts.
Then we pass it through the dis fluency reparations language cleaner on then that's birth.
We also have a dialogue act predictor, which identifies for different types of dialogue.
Act basically so conclusion.
Introduction.
We identify those on that.
Initially, it was 85 fine tune T five model for summarizing for running an abstract of summary ization.
However, the T five model, even though was incredible.
Once in a while came out with such garbage that it was just too bad there's a deputy.
No, we didn't actually, because that initially the T five tests we had were so so much more accurate.
While we did try GPD in the beginning, we're going to deputy to the model from Albany, but it wasn't quite good enough yet.
I think it's just because it's trained on CNN data
and Sometimes it would say it would.
It would summarise something in a meeting and then added the end.
Rob Mueller from CNN said, What s so in the spirit of going faster on making the models run faster?
We basically have a normal.
We went back to extract of summary ization instead, and it's also a little birth extractive summarise.
Er, there's there's a few models.
We have a punctuation birth based model that's also transformers that to fix punctuation because sometimes transcription doesn't understand punctuation correctly.
So in a few months ago, we were passing every sentence through the punctuation reparation as well as dis fluency, reparation.
I think I've removed it now.
It wasn't providing much value at the moment because it was too slow, but there's a bunch of parts on then.
Eventually there's feedback also from the user because we know everything they edit.
We keep track of every word they change.
So then that's improving the that part.
So, yeah, which part do you want to know about and how it?
Before there were five and we're hiring 73 of those are for those are engineering one B I kind of analysts, one in marketing to work with me because I'm not going to be working on the code.
That's what I'm trying to find, someone who's good.
You can take over from me on.
Probably just redo everything because I did it with time to market in mind, which is good.
That's something I wanted to ask you.
Actually, how do you feel?
Like, what's more important to you?
Accuracy of the models or validation?
User validation of the accuracy of the models or yeah,
that's a user validation.
Yeah, if we're talking about business submission, not just to get em solution than differently.
I guess the cost America tells you what.
Well, the ground truth is because, you know, I used to work in sentiment analysis.
I allowed it.
I was a hard way because when I was doing my PhD, I was operating ways with half measures, you know, precision recall on this stuff and was finally accepted, and people just were asking the questions and so first.
Then it started working in Brentwood.
Yeah, Despite having good metrics, I also have some not so good feedback from users saying this was not accurate.
That was that was a problem.
While so s is different in different Ennis are thinking business standing sense.
More important, to have to be back from from the user strung them from from the area under the curve doesn't matter as much as the user Not getting it.
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
I realised this, and I've been working in different commercial products for quite a while, and it's kind of something obvious that comes to me that fell metres.
No, don't don't usually fell.
Well, you know, people don't care about the metrics, is that they don't even know about them.
That's usually the way that that example you mentioned there is that the unsupervised and knowledge for approaches the sentiment analysis.
Yeah.
I mean, I spent like, four years in these.
I went tol me Brent Wash with I was with sentiments and that was there in different languages.
By the way, they're supporting wish only right now.
Yeah, but we noticed that we had a Spanish anything that transcript correctly and got summarised, most likely correctly because the breaking down of the meeting is by silences.
That's not language related.
The actual topic detection uses the remember part of speech.
So in theory, it's not like the model.
The spacing model is English, but it seemed to have broken it down correctly.
Anyways, the transcription turns out, we turned on language to detect on transcribing.
It came back as the language.
It actually works.
There are a few things that don't work like we have basic name, entity recognition for person names and locations on corporation names, that sort of stuff.
He's no work because the the English model doesn't work on Spanish, but everything else work on.
Then I put a few in German because I also like a like you.
I also speak a few languages.
I quite like languages.
German was a work like, Well, that's surprising.
But no, For now, we're gonna focusing on English, even English us almost because English US is so simple and so dumb that it kind of just get transcribed very accurately.
Whereas like Irish English is incredibly bad because there's so many die elects.
Mine is very, very light.
My, my linguine.
My accent is very strange, but if you have like robber Irish, I'd say the accuracy is like 60% a a. A leaflet in England, and I do remember that sometimes I could understand people speaking English.
Just no way.
No way I could understand them.
Okay.
Yeah.
On another question.
So what do you think you can just name want t 03 past assignments that he would like a person that you're hiring to start with?
Argentine detection first.
Then it's the topic detection.
I think our summaries, they're broken down nicely.
But the summary ization itself is not great.
The topics While the topics are accurate, they're not returned correctly there a bit too disorganised.
So topic detection topic modelling in this case would be super useful.
S
o actually, hold on.
I have a very clear list of this usually action items.
Summary of the topics.
Maybe at the summary ization items will be quite interesting to look at that brand.
They're kind of all related around some sort of bird model.
One question, if possible.
Are you well funded?
Because I have to leave my current positions simply because I was not start that ended.
Just fails to raise the ground.
Yeah, that's perfect.
So we raised 3.25 million.
We have 45 months.
Runway.
This is my third by my fourth business I sold my last three businesses s o this on the team that now there is my CDO from my previous business, which I sold the CBO from the previous business and the CFO as well.
The front and engineers, not from the previous business, but we just heard them.
So it's a thing that worked together that gone through an acquisition together, gone through a handcuff period together on bond.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm going to start raising serious I already in three months because there is money on it's way, way too early.
We don't have product market fit at all, but it doesn't matter.
I have to start raising your early so I can have it ready in nine months.
Maybe so.
Yeah, pretty well funded.
Usually that's not much of an issue to find money and a lot more interested in figuring out what the customers actually want and how they wanted.
If we're useful.
And how do we expand inside their company?
No, Very funny, because we have really good investors who really gets product led growth, our last board meeting, because I believe in having board meetings very early so that when the next round's come, it's It's It's already ah practised well oiled machine.
In our last board meeting, one of the investor goes, She's You're spending way too little.
You need to spend more.
Yes, yes, we know.
That's why we're trying to hire good people.
Yeah,
so
yeah,
I just want to say I look, I hope I hope you're not too affected and your family is not affected.
I knew you in Finland by kind of what's going on with Ukraine and Russia and all that sort of stuff.
You know, if if there's anything we can do if you know you have any any help needed anywhere, please don't hesitate to ask me.
I mean, I mean, likely I don't have any money in roles telling from my family in this, and there's very self development, but I mean personal.
Wait was it was very difficult.
Todo take this news, and I remember that couple of days officers they know, then you bombed there just wasn't able to do marshal holes.
It was like big shopping because it's quite close to here.
So that's right.
But I just wanted to offer my help.
If there's anything, as I said, we're well funded.
So if if we need to extract people, let me know quite likely on.
Also, people who are trying to leave Russia as because they just simply is they don't want to be there.
It's It's so it's unbearable.
There it's, it's more rapidly Taurus situation of North Korea.
You can't.
It's just a word war if you call things happening there as war your risk of are taken to jail for after 15 years.
But really all these years
Wow.
Just calling these things war walking out.
You're supposed to say this special news reparation.
If you say war.
Okay, the other girl
And
what people living trying to leave.
I'm just overwhelmed.
These people will remember me.
If you can help just relocate people from them, then.
Oh, yeah.
So why this?
I mean, regardless of what we decide to do together or not together here, if there's anything we can do, please, please let me know family or something terrible.
Anyways.
Okay.
I'll let you go.
This was actually I quite like that.
Did you?
How did you feel?
Was it good?
Was a bad.
You have big red flags.
But what clear words on me on our discussion.
No, no, not at all.
I like I said, I said, I like the idea.
I think we have a very nice chat.
We have some kind of common grounds in some public will discuss, select, and then wait.
I like doing work that we just met.
Cost.
All right, here's what I'm gonna do a shit.
It's Friday.
Thes.
Um, what if we have another tap on same Monday on you can come out with questions If you want.
We can go over some of the some of those those objectives in terms of action item detection on bond summary ization and the LD a stuff on the topic modelling on If you have other questions, like a meeting free to ask me anything because really, it's it's not really my job to figure out.
If you're good enough, it's I'll let you go in a second.
It's my job to figure out if we're good enough for you on.
If you would be able to grow inside the company as the direction you want to go, that's what I'm mostly concerned with in general is trying to figure out that it works for you on that.
It's a match kind of on our side.
But based on your background, I think it's pretty clear.
Yeah, and how they think one will take him in the whole process.
Another call are another call in maybe a very, very, very basic kind of not code tests, but like untidy a of a project into, like, working remotely.
One thing that's really tricky.
I think it's communication and figuring out how we can communicate together.
So typically, what I give is not not a coding project.
It's, Ah, communications project more than anything in its like not even in an hour.
If you take more than an hour, just scrap it.
Just want to kind of get an idea of how you would document, because I have, Ah, the same where I want to automate myself out of a job and document myself out of meetings.
This comes with a lot of there's a lot of baggage behind this in terms of being able to communicate remotely how we would work together if they are questions that you would like to ask if there are things like this.
But yeah, that's the process would be probably a few days, Max.
Okay, Great, cause I I need someone to come and work with us and start learning all the start learning all the shortcuts I've taken pretty quickly, so I don't do it basically because I'm too busy right now.
Yeah, money sounds like time That double cheque Monday 14.
Right.
Subject money, money.
Rightness.
Easy.
What about Tuesday?
Probably because money has helped out from freebie in my time.
T o.
No, no, no.
I'll send you a like a pre meeting whatever time you want.
Yeah, because there's no need for being.
Yeah,
yeah.
I mean, I'm quite interested.
I quite like your background.
I'd like to hear a bit more on the coding side of things.
How do you move from, like, you know, research or models to productions on D?
Yeah.
I have some experience with trying to separate, you know, with the Knicks format for exporting ends Mortals.
So plenty of these.
This could be also help.
And, of course, used mostly, don't you?
Yeah, sure.
Okay.
Use my son as well.
Yeah, I don't think there's no much any ocean.
I just fell through the ice to rise to a quote quite Lord in in job.
So job is also an option for me.
About my job is a bit rusty.
Could say so There's a lot of libraries, actually, yes.
Yes.
It's also kind of trying to catch up, but finding this for you, right?
If you if you have code already, I'm like, somewhere where you want to send me this way we can maybe skip any type of code parts.
Give me some ideas, some context, if not find.
Continue reading through your publications anyways.
That's why I was a bit slower and responding to you because I read I read a good few of the papers on If you want to have a look at Transformers, we could we could actually try like that.
Could be one of the good fucking like a good challenge.
Like, what's the dumbest, simplest version of an action item detector you could build and python in a notebook, like the most basic that finds anything that could be an interesting one, actually.
Yeah.
Yeah, well, but frankly, I wouldn't give you a challenge.
Or like I don't even know you call this a test.
Unless I thought we're going somewhere.
I don't want to waste your time on.
I don't want you to feel like you're being exploited or anything.
So, like from my side after the next call, if you're happy, would you do it?
Yes.
If you prefer not.
That's totally fine.
Also on we can find another way programme that there's this lady.
Thank you.
Here's how a good weekend.
